# C++ JSON reader 

Quick project I threw together to strengthen my grasp
on C++ as a whole, but more specifically, its polymorphism and inheritance.
reference link for the JSON standard can be found [here](https://www.json.org/json-en.html).


## Components
The JSON reader consists of two key components: the lexer and the parser.
### 1. Lexer

The lexer plays a crucial role in breaking down the JSON file character by character. When the programmer provides a JSON parser to the lexer, it analyzes the input JSON file and forms an ordered list of segments. Each segment contains key information about the next sequence in the JSON file. The essential properties of a segment include:

- `segment.value`: The value of the segment.
- `segment.type`: The type of the segment (e.g., literal, number, openbrace, openbracket).
- `segment.linenum`: The line number where the segment was found in the JSON file.

### 2. Parser

The parser takes the ordered list of segments generated by the lexer and processes it to create a new `Value` object. This `Value` object encapsulates the properties of the provided JSON file. The `Value` types include:

- `Object`: Represents a JSON object.
- `Array`: Represents a JSON array.
- `Number`: Represents a JSON number.
- `String`: Represents a JSON string.
- `true`, `false`: Represent JSON boolean values.
- `null`: Represents a JSON null value.

## Usage
To use the reader, follow the following steps:
### 1. include Lexer and Parser header files

    #include "Lexer.h"
    #include "Parser.h"

### 2. Construct a new Lexer Object and pass it the json filepath
    
    Lexer lex("../testfile.json");

### 3. Construct a new Parser object and pass it the lexers segments list

    //the lexers segments list can be found in the 
    //"seglist" field of the lexer object
    Parser parse(lex.seglist);

### 4. call the parsers parse method
    
    //parse() will populate the Value field "json" in the parser object
    //this is where your parsed json element is contained
    parse.parse();

## NOTES:

Currently, to access members of the JSON value, some meticulous type casting is required.
The next objective for this project is to create some helper/getter methods for elements in the Value object, 
to make accessing the data a bit more user-friendly.